Clinical：

What are the main clinical symptoms of osteosarcoma?
Where are the most common sites of osteosarcoma?
What is the incidence of metastasis of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy in the treatment of osteosarcoma?
What is the treatment for local recurrence and recurrence of lung metastases?
What is the current standard of care for osteosarcoma?
What are the most important factors affecting the prognosis of patients with osteosarcoma?
What are the major challenges in the treatment of osteosarcoma?
What is the status of immunotherapy in the treatment of osteosarcoma?
What are the possible advantages of immunotherapy?
What are the main metastatic sites of osteosarcoma?
What are the main factors affecting the prognosis of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of bone microenvironment in the treatment of osteosarcoma?
What are the main characteristics of osteosarcoma?
What is the treatment strategy for osteosarcoma?
What is the role of chemotherapy in the treatment of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of surgery in the treatment of osteosarcoma?
What is the scenario for radiotherapy in the management of osteosarcoma?
What are the common chemotherapy regimens for osteosarcoma?
What is the prognosis for recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma?
What is the current status of research on novel therapies for recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma?
What are the clinical features of highly malignant centralized osteosarcoma?
What are the prognostic differences between different subtypes of osteosarcoma?
What clinical information is needed to diagnose osteosarcoma?
What is the impact of clinical staging on the choice of treatment for osteosarcoma?

Genetic:

What are the major genetic mutations associated with the development of osteosarcoma?
Which gene amplifications are associated with the development and progression of osteosarcoma?
What genetic tests are important in the diagnosis of osteosarcoma?
What are the tumor antigens of osteosarcoma?
What is the expression of PD-L1 in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of B7-H3 in osteosarcoma?
What are the other genes/molecules in osteosarcoma that may become immunotherapeutic targets?
What cells/factors are involved in immune escape in the tumor microenvironment of osteosarcoma?
What are the common genetic alterations in osteosarcoma?
What genes are associated with metastasis of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of microRNAs in osteosarcoma metastasis?
What is the role of long chain non-coding RNAs in osteosarcoma?
Which molecules in osteosarcoma may be potential therapeutic targets?
What are the common genetic alterations in osteosarcoma?
What are the therapeutic studies on molecular targets for osteosarcoma?
What are the genomic features of osteosarcoma?
What are the characteristics of different molecular subtypes of osteosarcoma?
What is the immunogenetic profile of osteosarcoma?
What are the genes or pathways that could be therapeutic targets for osteosarcoma?
What are the common genetic changes in highly malignant central osteosarcoma?
What is the significance of MDM2 gene amplification in osteosarcoma?
What is the significance of IDH mutation in osteosarcoma?
What is the significance of H3F3A mutation in osteosarcoma?
What is the significance of FOS and USP6 genes in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of ATRX gene in osteosarcoma?

Cellular:

What are the main cytologic features of osteosarcoma tumor cells?
What are the differences in the cytologic manifestations of different subtypes of osteosarcoma?
What are the differences in cytologic grading and malignancy between superficial osteosarcoma and classic central osteosarcoma?
Which immune cells in the microenvironment of osteosarcoma are involved in the anti-tumor immune response?
What immunosuppressive cells in the microenvironment of osteosarcoma are involved in tumor immune escape?
How do osteosarcoma cells mediate immune escape by secreting exosomes?
How do osteosarcoma cells use tumor-associated fibroblasts (CAF) to build an immunosuppressive microenvironment?
How do osteosarcoma cells use tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) to promote immune escape?
Which cells in the bone microenvironment are involved in promoting osteosarcoma metastasis?
How do MSCs promote osteosarcoma metastasis by secreting factors and releasing exosomes?
How do the acidic and hypoxic environments of bone microenvironment affect the metastasis of osteosarcoma?
How does chemokine in the bone microenvironment participate in the metastatic process of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of extracellular vesicles in the bone microenvironment in osteosarcoma metastasis?
What is the cellular origin of osteosarcoma?
What cells in the bone microenvironment are involved in regulating the progression of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of extracellular vesicles in the malignant progression of osteosarcoma?
What are the therapeutic strategies to target osteosarcoma cell surface antigens?
What are the morphological characteristics of osteosarcoma cells?
What are the characteristics of osteosarcoma cells that produce bone matrix or cartilage matrix?
What are the reasons for the morphological heterogeneity of osteosarcoma among different subtypes?
What is the role of SATB2 in the diagnosis of osteosarcoma?
What are the differences in cell morphology and biological behavior of different subtypes of osteosarcoma?
What is the therapeutic significance of targeting cell cycle proteins in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of MDM2 in the development of osteosarcoma?
What is the significance of CCNE1 in osteosarcoma?

Pathways:

What is the role of Wnt signaling pathway in the development of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of PI3K/mTOR signaling pathway in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of Notch signaling pathway in the development of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of growth factor signaling pathway in osteosarcoma?
What other signaling pathways may be involved in the development of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of PD-1/PD-L1 signaling pathway in immune escape from osteosarcoma?
What is the role of CTLA-4 signaling pathway in the immune escape of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of TGF-β signaling pathway in the immune escape of osteosarcoma?
What other signaling pathways may be involved in the immune escape of osteosarcoma?
What is the potential of interventions targeting these signaling pathways in the treatment of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of PI3K/Akt signaling pathway in osteosarcoma metastasis?
What is the role of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in osteosarcoma metastasis?
What is the role of MAPK/ERK signaling pathway in osteosarcoma metastasis?
What is the role of Hedgehog signaling pathway in osteosarcoma metastasis?
What is the role of Notch signaling pathway in osteosarcoma metastasis?
What is the role of cell cycle regulatory pathway in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of DNA damage repair pathway in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of immune-related pathways in the microenvironment of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of chromosome fragmentation in osteosarcoma development?
What is the role of TP53 and RB1 genes in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of 12q13-15 region amplification in osteosarcoma?
What is the significance of IDH mutation in the differential diagnosis between osteosarcoma and chondrosarcoma?
What is the significance of FOS and USP6 genes in the differential diagnosis of osteosarcoma?
What is the role of VEGF/VEGFR pathway in osteosarcoma?
What is the role of PDGF/PDGFR pathway in osteosarcoma?