Localized pain, swelling and limited joint movement are the typical symptoms of osteosarcoma. Localized pain is usually the first symptom, followed by localized swelling and limited joint motion. In a small number of patients, especially those with osteolytic tumors, a pathological fracture may be the first symptom.
Osteosarcoma is most commonly found at the end of the diaphysis of the long bones. The most common sites are the distal femur, the proximal tibia, and the proximal humerus, and about 50% of osteosarcomas occur around the knee joint. In addition, about 10% of osteosarcomas occur in the axial bones, most commonly in the pelvis.
Approximately 15% of patients with osteosarcoma have radiologically visible metastases at the time of diagnosis, most commonly to the lungs, but also to the bones and a few lymph nodes. Even if the disease is only localized at the time of initial diagnosis, 80-90% of patients will eventually develop metastases, primarily to the lungs, and most will eventually die of metastases if not treated with chemotherapy.
The current standard of care includes preoperative (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy, surgical resection of the tumor, and postoperative (adjuvant) chemotherapy. This multimodality treatment leads to cure in about two-thirds of patients with limited disease. Preoperative chemotherapy prepares the tumor for safe surgical resection and selects the appropriate reconstructive modality for the individual patient. Postoperative chemotherapy further destroys residual tumor cells.
The treatment of local recurrence and recurrence of lung metastases depends mainly on complete surgical resection. Even if a patient has multiple recurrences, more than one-third of patients will survive long term as long as the recurrent sites are completely resected. Chemotherapy has a limited role in recurrent patients, but appropriate second-line chemotherapy regimens, such as etoposide, isocyclophosphamide, and carboplatin, can be selected based on previous chemotherapy response and time to recurrence.
The current standard of care for osteosarcoma includes extensive surgical resection, neoadjuvant chemotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy. This multimodality treatment leads to cure in about two-thirds of patients with limited disease.
The major prognostic factors for osteosarcoma include tumor metastasis and recurrence. About 20-30% of patients with osteosarcoma have metastatic or recurrent disease and have a poor prognosis.
Osteosarcoma is characterized by drug resistance and early hematogenous metastasis, as well as the influence of tumor stem cells and tumor microenvironment on the treatment, which are the main challenges in the current treatment.
Immunotherapy has shown potential in the treatment of osteosarcoma, which can overcome the drawbacks of chemotherapy, increase the efficacy and improve the quality of life. In recent years, more and more clinical trials of immunotherapy have been conducted in osteosarcoma.
Immunotherapy can avoid the drawbacks of osteosarcoma treatment such as chemotherapy resistance and tumor immune escape, improve treatment efficacy and improve patients' quality of life.
The most common metastatic site of osteosarcoma is lung.
Metastasis and recurrence of osteosarcoma are the main factors affecting the prognosis. Patients with metastatic or recurrent osteosarcoma have a poor prognosis, with a 5-year survival rate of only 20-30%.
Bone microenvironment plays an important role in the development of osteosarcoma and may become a new therapeutic target.
Osteosarcoma is the most common bone tumor in children and adolescents. It occurs at the end of the long bone shaft, with the most common site around the knee joint. 25% of patients have metastasis at the time of diagnosis, and lung metastasis is the most common site.
Standard treatment includes neoadjuvant chemotherapy, surgical resection of the primary tumor and metastases, adjuvant chemotherapy, and radiation therapy for cases with positive margins or incomplete resection.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy has become the standard of care as it can dramatically improve 5-year progression-free survival and overall survival. Commonly used chemotherapy regimens include high-dose methotrexate, adriamycin, cisplatin, and isocyclophosphamide.
Surgical resection of the primary tumor and metastases is the key to local control, and 80-85% of patients can undergo extremity warming surgery. Patients with positive surgical margins and poor response to chemotherapy have a poor prognosis.
Radiotherapy is mainly used in patients with positive margins or incomplete resection, and in cases that cannot be surgically resected. High-dose radiotherapy (≥70 Gy) can improve the local control rate.
The standard chemotherapy regimen consists of high-dose methotrexate, adriamycin, and cisplatin (MAP regimen), which is usually given both before and after surgery.
The prognosis for patients with recurrent or metastatic osteosarcoma is very poor, with a 4-month event-free survival rate of only 12%.
Small sample trials are being conducted to rapidly evaluate the efficacy of new agents, such as immunotherapy, in recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma.
Highly malignant central osteosarcoma occurs in adolescents at the end of the long bones, especially around the knee joint. About 70% of limited cases have long-term survival. However, if metastasis occurs, the 5-year survival rate is less than 30%.
Low-grade osteosarcomas such as parosteal and low-grade central tumors have a good prognosis, with a 10-year overall survival rate of more than 80%. About 15% will dedifferentiate to high-grade tumors and have a poorer prognosis.
Diagnosis of osteosarcoma requires a comprehensive evaluation of clinical presentation, imaging and pathology, and pathology alone may not be reliable.
Low-grade osteosarcoma does not require conventional chemotherapy, while high-grade osteosarcoma requires additional chemotherapy. Low-grade tumors that are dedifferentiated require aggressive treatment.