Osteosarcoma is characterized by the proliferation of malignant mesenchymal tumor cells and the production of bone-like matrix and/or immature bone by these tumor cells. These cytologic features are key to the diagnosis of osteosarcoma.
According to the WHO classification, osteosarcoma is divided into three subtypes: osteoid, cartilaginous and fibrous, which reflect the main types of tumor stroma. There are differences in the type of stroma produced by tumor cells of different subtypes.
Superficial osteosarcomas are usually low-grade type I or intermediate-grade type II tumors, whereas classic central osteosarcomas are almost always high-grade type III malignancies. In other words, superficial osteosarcomas are relatively less malignant, whereas classic central osteosarcomas are more malignant.
NK cells, NKT cells, CD8+ cytotoxic T cells and CD4+ T cells in the microenvironment of osteosarcoma are involved in anti-tumor immune response.
Treg cells, MDSC, M2 type TAM, etc. in the microenvironment of osteosarcoma have immunosuppressive effects and promote tumor immune escape.
Osteosarcoma cells can secrete exosomes carrying immunosuppressive molecules such as PD-L1 and IDO, which inhibit the functions of T cells and NK cells and lead to immune escape.
CAF can regulate immunosuppressive cells and angiogenesis through the secretion of TGF-β, VEGF and other factors, creating a favorable immune microenvironment for osteosarcoma cells.
M2 TAM is associated with metastasis and poor prognosis of osteosarcoma, while M1 TAM has anti-tumor effects. Osteosarcoma cells can escape immune surveillance by modulating the polarization state of TAM.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and other cells in the bone microenvironment are involved in promoting osteosarcoma metastasis.
MSCs can secrete factors such as IL-6, IL-8, CXCL1, CXCL5, etc., and promote the invasion and metastasis of osteosarcoma by delivering microRNA through exosomes.
Acidic and hypoxic environments can induce MSCs to secrete a variety of pro-metastatic factors, such as CXCL1, CXCL5, IL-6, IL-8, etc., which can promote the invasion and metastasis of osteosarcoma.
The CXCL12/CXCR4/CXCR7 axis and the IL-8/CXCR1 axis play an important role in the metastasis of osteosarcoma and can promote the invasion and metastasis of osteosarcoma by activating the related signaling pathways.
Extracellular vesicles from osteosarcoma cells and MSCs can promote the invasion and metastasis of osteosarcoma by delivering miRNAs and cytokines.
Osteosarcoma originates from osteoblasts or their precursor cells of the mesenchymal cell line.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and M2 tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) promote osteosarcoma metastasis in the bone microenvironment.
Extracellular vesicles from osteosarcoma cells and MSCs deliver pro-metastatic signals to regulate the invasive capacity of osteosarcoma.
Antigens such as GPNMB, LRRC15, HER2, GD2 and B7-H3 are potential targets, and related immunotherapies such as monoclonal antibodies, ADCs and CAR-T are being developed.
Osteosarcoma cells show a high degree of cellular and nuclear abnormalities, accompanied by a high number of mitotic figures.
The main matrix types of different subtypes of osteosarcoma vary, including osteoid, cartilaginous and fibrous.
Different subtypes of osteosarcoma differ in the degree of cell differentiation and stromal composition, resulting in different histologic features.
SATB2 immunostaining is diffusely positive in most osteoid osteosarcomas, but the specificity is poor.
High-grade and low-grade osteosarcomas differ in the degree of abnormal nuclear morphology, number of divisions, and aggressiveness.
Targeting cell cycle regulatory proteins such as CDK4/6 and Aurora kinase can block the proliferation of osteosarcoma cells.
MDM2 overexpression is common in low-grade osteosarcoma, which can be promoted by regulating p53.
High expression of CCNE1 can promote the development of osteosarcoma by regulating the G1/S transition in the cell cycle.