Mutations in the tumor suppressor genes TP53 and RB1 associated with hereditary diseases such as hereditary retinoblastoma and Li-Fraumeni syndrome have been linked to the development of osteosarcoma. Mutations in genes due to these inherited tumor syndromes can increase an individual's risk of developing osteosarcoma.
Amplification of the MYC gene has been observed in osteosarcoma, and overexpression of the MYC gene promotes tumor growth and progression.The amplification and overexpression of MYC, a gene involved in cell cycle regulation and cell proliferation, has been associated with the malignant progression of osteosarcoma.
Genetic evaluation is required for pathologic diagnosis. Due to the diverse histologic manifestations of osteosarcoma, appropriate biopsies and genetic testing by a specialist pathologist are required to ensure a correct pathologic diagnosis.
Osteosarcoma may express some tumor-specific or tumor-associated antigens, such as MAGE-A1 and HER-2, which are targets of tumor vaccine.
Several studies have found that PD-L1 expression is high in osteosarcoma cell lines and tissues, and correlates with drug resistance, the level of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, and prognosis.
B7-H3 is an immune checkpoint molecule that may also play an immunosuppressive role in osteosarcoma, making it a potential target for immunotherapy.
Immunosuppressive molecules such as IDO and CTLA-4 are up-regulated in the microenvironment of osteosarcoma and may be potential targets for immunotherapy.
Treg cells, MDSC, M2-type TAM, TGF-β, VEGF and other factors in the microenvironment of osteosarcoma may contribute to tumor immune escape through immunosuppression.
TP53 and RB1 are the most commonly mutated genes in osteosarcoma, which are involved in cell cycle regulation and apoptosis.
Abnormal expression of c-myc, AP-1, c-fos, TWIST, MMP and IGF-1 is associated with metastasis of osteosarcoma.
microRNAs such as miR-135b, miR-183, and miR-146b-5p promote invasive metastasis of osteosarcoma by regulating the Wnt/β-catenin and Notch pathways.
Long chain non-coding RNAs such as LINC00628, DANCR/miR-33a-5p and lncRNA H19 are involved in the regulation of PI3K/Akt and Wnt/β-catenin pathways to promote osteosarcoma metastasis.
Signaling pathways such as PI3K/Akt, Wnt/β-catenin, MAPK/ERK, and chemokines such as IL-8 and CXCL12 may become new therapeutic targets in osteosarcoma.
Inactivation of TP53 and RB1 genes is a common molecular genetic alteration in osteosarcoma.
The literature mentions that innovative treatments such as immune checkpoint inhibitors and CAR-T cells are being investigated.
Osteosarcoma is characterized by highly complex genomic alterations, such as chromosome fragmentation syndromes and numerous structural variants.
Osteosarcoma can be classified into 6 molecular subtypes based on alterations in key signaling pathways, each with different potential targeted therapeutic strategies.
Osteosarcoma has a high tumor mutation load, and the expression level of immune-related genes is associated with prognosis.
IGF pathway, PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, CDK, Aurora kinase, etc. may be potential targets.
Inactivation of TP53 and RB1, amplification of 6p, 8q, 4q, 12q and 17p are common genetic alterations in highly malignant osteosarcoma.
MDM2 amplification is common in low-grade osteosarcoma, especially parosteal type, and is helpful in differential diagnosis.
IDH mutation is rare in osteosarcoma, but more common in chondrosarcoma, which can be used for differential diagnosis.
H3F3A gene mutation can be seen in some malignant osteochondromas, but rarely in osteosarcomas.
FOS gene rearrangement is commonly seen in osteoblastoma, while USP6 gene rearrangement is seen in primary aneurysmal bone cysts, which can be used for differential diagnosis.
ATRX gene mutation can activate ALT pathway to lengthen telomeres and promote the non-aging of osteosarcoma cells, which provides the basis for its targeted therapy (paragraph 44-46).